---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

[//]: # (Title)
<h3 align="center"><b> Contributing to FOSS</b></h3>

[//]: # (Content)
### How would I like to contribute? ###
Until recently, I did not know that writing some code is not the only way to
contribute to open source. For example, you can contribute by
improving or translating their documentation, suggesting new feature to the
project, or even helping to organize some events and more. These are all
respectable way to contribute to open source projects. Though these
might not be the fanciest ways, as a beginner, I think I should
focus on writing, improving, or translating documentation over the course of
semester. Off course, it would be great if I do that by writing some code.

### What would you benefit from contributing? ###
<dl>
    <dt>FOSS Benefits to your Skills:</dt>
    <dd>
        <dl><ul><li>
            <dt>Communication</dt>
            <dd>- Communicating with people who you don't know is essential in FOSS,
                that must improve your communication skills.</dd></li>
        <li>
            <dt>Best Practices</dt>
            <dd>- Communities have been developing their practices for what they
                know more than anyone else in the world. You would avoid
                unexpected bugs or failures by following their best
                practices.</dd>
        </li>
            </ul></dl>
    </dd>
    <dt style="font-style: normal">FOSS Benefits to Your Career:</dt>
    <dd>
        <dl><ul><li>
            <dt>Visibility of your work</dt>
            <dd>- Contributing to FOSS projects guarantees that your work can be
                shared to anyone. This can be beneficial because your future
                employer can verify your skill whereas private works often have
                some limitations.</dd></li>
        <li>
            <dt>Expand your interest</dt>
            <dd>- You might unexpectedly find things that interest you. It may be
                the great step towards your career.</dd>
        </li>
        </ul></dl>
    </dd>
    <dt style="font-style: normal">Benefits from Network:</dt>
    <dd>
        <dl><ul><li>
            <dt>More Information</dt>
            <dd>- By joining a community, you would be able to access more
                  information from other member's blog, email update or some
                  internal events.</dd>
        </li>
        <li>
            <dt>Personal Network </dt>
            <dd>- You might get a chance to work with an experienced team that
            usually does not happen while you are in school.</dd>
        </li>
        </ul></dl>
    </dd>
</dl>

