---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

[//]: # (Title)
<h1 align="center"> Week1 </h1>
<p align="center"><b> Why did I decide to take this course?</b></p>
<p align="center"> Well, to be honest, I needed to take some elective courses to
graduate, and I suppose most of my classmates are in the same situation.
However, I actually have some justifications why I choose this course out
of other electives.</p>


[//]: # (Content)
### Contribution to OSS ###
The main reason is to start contributing on open source projects. I think this
class is the best course for that as the name of this course says. Even though I
have always wanted to contribute to open source projects, but I do not know
where to start. There are so many projects, and many of the them are huge. In
addition, it is somewhat scary to try yet most projects have contribution guides
on their page. I think this applies most of people who has no prior experience
in open source development.

### Git Skills ###
Another incentive is to become more proficient on git. I took the capstone
course (a team project course which is designed for cs majors who completed all
requirements from the department) last semester, and I realized how poor I know
about git and github. I had no idea how git commands like `pull`, `fetch` or
`merge` work, so every time my teammates update our repository, I had to clone
the repo and start working on the directory just cloned to my machine. As you
can see, it turned into hell when I had some changes in my local repository.
Fortunately, one of my teammates told me how to use those commands, so I
eventually got to know the basics about them. However, those commands was more
complicated than I thought, and there are a lot more git commands that are
useful. This class seemed the best class for me to learn these things.

### Communication Skills ###
The last one is to improve my communication skills. I am an international
student, and my first language is not English. I sometimes find it hard to tell
others what I am actually thinking about in my head, both in verbal and written
communication. However, extensive communication is required in the world of
software, and my situation cannot be an excuse. I thought this class is the best
fit for practicing my communication skill, since I have seen that documentation
or communication is significantly important in open source development.

