---
layout: post
title: Week 8
subtitle: Current Situation
---


<p align="center">
    Everyone in the world is having difficult time due to the situation, and I
    hope you and people around you are doing well.
</p>


##### Changes in Everyday Life
As the situation worsens,
the thing in my life has been changing day by day. First of all, I just don't go 
out anymore. I order necessities online. I won't need to go out for those for 
now, but it may be just because I don't live with my family meaning that I only 
have to take care of myself. As for school, we started our complete remote 
session today (5/19/2020) for the rest of the semester. Since the college had 
told us before this thing became more realistic, I was ready for it. However, it 
was still surprising when I first heard about it. The tool our college decided 
to use is a feature from BlackBoard called Blackboard Collaborate. From my 
experience in Blackboard, I was expecting things would become much harder like 
poor connection. However, at least for me, as a student taking lectures, things 
went surprisingly well and smooth. I appreciate the work of professors and the 
owner of technologies who made these accessible for us. Surprisingly, there is a 
better tool that we are switching to from next week. It feels a little wired 
staying in my room for the whole day, but I have more time to do my stuff. I 
noticed that it does not necessarily make me working more. I used to think if 
our college is closer, I would be able to work more or something like this, but 
that won't happen. I appreciate that I had access to the library now. The 
environment is precious and hard to be replaced.  

As for what the world will be after it settles, I really have no idea. This 
could be the most significant event in my life affecting the entire world 
negatively. 
However, one thing that's becoming more certain to me is that the world deeply 
depends on information technology. It is a silly assumption, but if there is no 
internet today, for example, there would be more human infractions that 
presumably make the situation worse. 


##### InkScape
**Completed**: 
- Created a slack group for the team.

**Todos**:
- Make a final decision on what we are doing for the project
- Complete todos from last week that are not completed yet  

I am still waiting for a response to my request to the Website Moderator. 
However, It doesn't look like I am going to be accepted, so I will start working
on the main project.


##### Outside Activity
**Completed**:
-  Added an English name to a public hall since it was showing in Japanese in
English setting on OSM.
- Edited albums and members section on a Wikipedia page about my favorite Japanese rock band.  

**Todos**:
- Make the band's English wiki more informational.
- Contribute more to OSM. Editing area around my home town.
- Make at least one edit on one of my classmates' blogs. 
