##### Inkscape 
It's been the busiest week this semester for me. I had two projects to be done, 
had to complete some paperwork for my status, had an interview, and on top of 
them, I had a fever that scared me, affecting my graduation. Fortunately, it 
went away (I believe) with some rest. Next week should be a bit better, and then
the following week I have to finals. I hope everything goes okay. Though it was 
our presentation week, I could not make any contributions so that I will depend 
on past contributions for the presentation. It's my first time presenting online
to me, so I am pretty nervous about it. Though It cannot be an excuse and 
absolutely needs to be fixed, it has also been pretty tough to present in 
English, in general. Anyway, We had a couple of meetings to create our slides, 
and discussed who is showing what. I have been learning about Docker and Docker 
Overlay to improve `inkscape-ci-docker`, which currently only has ci builds 
integrations to the main `inkscape` repo and the `extension` repo. However, 
learning the concept of overlay networks cannot be done in the short-term, so 
I decided to add it to my post-graduation to-do list.


##### Thoughts on "[Makers and Takers]"
 Writing this blog took taking the longest since I am not familiar with most of 
the general bossiness concept the author uses in *[Makers and Takers]*. However, 
I enjoyed this post, and it gave me an entirely new view of developing bossiness 
using or creating open-source software. One of the things I love about 
open-source related reading that is it gives me not only information related software, 
but it is also beneficial since I can learn how the world works. For example, we 
learned briefly about game theory in 150 (Intro to Discrete Structures), but I 
never had a chance to come up with a practical application of them. The author 
applies this theory claiming that there are two primary players in the bossiness 
world using open-source, which are **Makers** and **Takers**. Buytaert 
defines them as follows: 
<dl> 
<dt><strong>Makers</strong></dt> 
<dd>Companies who invests on maintaining, engineering their product as open-sour
ce <b>intentionally</b> (ie. Red Hat)</dd> 
<dt><strong>Takers</strong></dt>
<dd>Companies, from technology startups to technology giants, monetize Open Sour
ce projects <b>without contributing back</b> (ie. Ama*on Web Service)</dd> 
</dl> 

However, **Makers** can be **Takers** at the same time, and the relationships of 
companies can be beautifully applied to the [Presser's Dilemma]. He gives an 
example with two random companies, both yielding to be Takers even though they 
know it's better to collaborate for them and open-source community, since they 
are rational enough to not take the risk of the worst-case that one choose to 
contribute and another not contributing. This is the worst scenario for the one 
who contributes, especially if another is the competitor. Therefore, they make 
much less money than the case if both contribute to open source. I liked how he 
linked it to a much familiar case. Say that if two people are sharing a room, 
and if both washes dishes every time, there won't be a situation with no clean 
plates to use, however, we always think about if I wash and others don't my time 
washing dishes will be wasted. This example made the concept clearer.

Although I thought he is implying that **Makers** are the good, and **Takers** 
are the evil, and I even agreed it looks like the nature of the world. However, 
it is not his point at all, but rather, he later defines one of his company as a 
**Taker**. 

He then brings up an economics idea of common goods and and public 
goods to combine with his Makers and Takers theory. 
He emphasizes how open-source is public goods (not-rivalrous). Still, at the same 
time, for companies, open-source can be a common good (rivalrous) because an 
open-source project can prevent people using similar products, which reminded 
me of the stupid war between users of Emacs and Vim (it's an example, and I know 
more than half of them are just joking), but some Vim users might not use Emacs. 
It has never thought that way when it comes to open-source, which user is 
considered as a shared source. That said, he criticizes "Customer Free Riders", 
and I think this is the first important in this post, as he doesn't think 
"software free riders", who only use the product without contributing back, are 
a potential problem for the community. This is because software free riders can 
bring new users to the community, and if even a small amount of them contribute 
to the project, generally seen as successful. It made sense to me, but I don't 
know if this is true or not because I have never owned a project or company. 

He also emphasizes the history of common goods by referring a few studies that 
have proved the importance of external agents avoiding free riders. To be honest, 
I haven't even heard of those studies. However, the introduction sentence by 
Mancur Olson is straight foreword. He says, "Unless the number of individuals is 
quite small, or unless there is coercion or some other special device to make 
individuals act in their common interest, rational, self-interested individuals 
will not act to achieve their common or group interest." I think every one of us 
has experienced in activities which are not personal, such as his example of 
dishes in a shared kitchen. He concludes that centralization and privatization 
as a key for maintaining a project as the project gets larger.

Furthermore, he says there is the third idea to keep common goods, which is 
studied by Elinor Ostrom that introduced ways to manage commons, not either 
privatizing or centralizing. Though all the cases are shown by Ostrom eventually 
become closed access, it is still the community that maintains the resource. 
I felt this could be a great hint to manage to keep the "community." 

Having defined the terms above, he suggests three ways to scale and sustain open
-source successfully.

1. Appeal fairness 
1. Encouraging end-users to have selective benefits to Makers 
1. Experiment with new licenses

Though there are not many concepts that I was familiar with, the point he made 
is clear. I haven't even categorized mozilla as an company, and firefox as its 
product before reading this post. I felt that this post is not about open-source 
should be, but rather, he suggests a practical approach to avoid open-source to 
be too philosophical. Also, I realized that there seems to be a lot of 
communities believing in "pure-open," and many of them failed or having some 
difficulties. People involved in that might have doubts believing the idea of 
open source, I think this should be avoided for the feature of the communities. 
As I said in the last post, I think it is essential to respect the idea of 
open-source in general. I also learned that several approaches tend to be 
criticized, but the creators don't necessarily intend to break the system of 
open source. 

[Makers and Takers]: https://dri.es/balancing-makers-and-takers-to-scale-and-sustain-open-source
[Presser's Dilemma]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prisoner%27s_dilemma
