---
layout: post
title: Week 10
subtitle: My First Pull Request
---

##### Talk by Gil Yehuda
We had a guest speaker Gil Yehuda, who is working at Verison Media as a Sr. 
Director of the Open Source department. I appreciate his spending time with our 
class. His main point was how essential for us to (especially for students 
looking for a job) to be involved with open-source projects. Contributing to a 
project with quality validates your skills because that means the maintainers 
officially accept your work.

One of my classmates had a 
question about managing our confidence. Thanks to the person who asked about it 
since I wanted to ask the same thing. He responded to the question that all of 
us have Impostor syndrome. Then, he gave us an example of a Violinist who 
responded, "I do it fourteen hours every day" when he was told how talented he 
is. This example illustrates one of my perspectives about saying if one is 
"talented" or not. I am not to say that if such a thing doesn't exist, and I 
rather believe it does. However, to me, expressing that a person is "talented" 
just because one is capable of something is meaningless. That is because what 
you are mentioning could be just a normal thing for that person, and at the same 
time, more importantly, it could be disrespectful if he/she has been making a 
lot of effort to it.


##### Inkscape
This week, I opened my first merge request. Since the ci project is not as
important compared to the main Inkscape project, This will probably take some
more time for a review. For the team, we are meeting today (04-05-2020) on
Discord.

###### Debugging Inkscape
I was browsing the Inkscape page last week, and found a section about 
debugging the project using GDB. I have only used them on some IDEs 
(yes.., I remember there was a lecture about debugging software in 136, but I 
didn't pay too much attention), so I tried running it manually to see how it 
goes. I had to recompile the project to enable debugging symbols. The 
instructions are on [this page][debugging]. To run the project with gdb, you can
pass the executable as an argument to the command.
``` bash
gdb path/to/executable
```


> Completed:
> - Fixed (hopefully) the issue that I opened on `inkscape-ci-docker`
> - Made a merge request with the above fix

> Todos:
> - Find a issue and try to catch a crash with GDB
> - Working on [this issue][issue_472]


##### Outside Activity
> Completed:
> - OSM:
>   - Added a pond near my house
> - Wikipedia:
>   - Edited a page of the [city][Toyohashi] I was born, which had incorrectly 
    formatted info section.
> - Blog Editing:
>   - Fixed some typo on one of Umar's posts and made a pull request

> Todos:
> - Some more blog edits
> - Keep working on the Wikipedia page about the band

##### Shell Script
Fixing the issue, I learned a new stuff that could be useful. The problem is 
something like this, given a string `genres` which consists of one or more 
string(s) representing the genre(s) of a musical artist or group, and `genre` that 
represents a specific genre of music. Find if `genres` contains the string 
`genre`. It's the simplest substring problem, but trying things in a new language 
is sometimes not that simple. I first tried with the [`grep`][grep]. The command
``` bash 
echo "Blues Jazz Gospel" | grep -o "Jazz"
```
generates an output `"Jazz"` meaning the string `"Jazz"` is a substring of
`"Jazz Blues Gospel"`. To make the matching case-insensitive, adding `-i` option 
to the `grep` will do it. Since I need a boolean value for a if statement, 
the script looks something like: 
``` bash
#!/bin/bash

input="blues jazz gospel"
target="jazz"

if [[ $(echo "$input" | grep "$target") ]]; 
    then
        printf '%s is in "%s"\n' "$target" "$input"
    else
        printf '%s is not in "%s"\n' "$target" "$input"
fi
```
Although it works fine, the condition looks too much for this simple step. After
some research, I found a way to simplify this (from [this post][stack_overflow]
). It uses a Linux command-line tool called Standard [Wildcards]. The man page 
says,  
"*`*` or an asterisk can represent any number of characters 
(including zero, in other words, zero or more characters). If you specified a 
"cd\*" it would use "cda", "cdrom", "cdrecord" and anything that starts with 
“cd” also including “cd” itself. "m\*l" could by mill, mull, ml, and anything 
that starts with an m and ends with an l.*"  
which indicates "`*jazz*`" will match "`blues jazz gospel`". Therefore, the if
statement from the above script can be rewritten as:
``` bash
if [[ "$input" == *"$target"* ]];
```
This looks much better and could be useful for some other cases.

[ISSUE_472]: https://gitlab.com/inkscape/inkscape-web/-/issues/472
[Toyohashi]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toyohashi
[grep]: https://www.gnu.org/software/grep/manual/grep.html
[stack_overflow]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/229551/how-to-check-if-a-string-contains-a-substring-in-bash/229585#229585
[wildcards]: https://tldp.org/LDP/GNU-Linux-Tools-Summary/html/x11655.html
[Debugging]: https://inkscape.org/develop/debugging/



