---
layout: post
title: Week 6
subtitle: Working on Inkscape
---

[/]: # (SubTitle)
<p align="center">
    Our team is working on a free and open-source graphical editor called
    <a href="https://inkscape.org/">InkScape</a> licensed under Gnome General
    Public License. One of the main features of this project is that it is
    mainly used for editing vector images. <code>SVG</code> and <code>PDF</code>
    are some examples of their formats. According to <a href="https://en
    .wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_graphics">Wikipedia</a>, "Vector graphics are
    computer graphics images that are defined in terms of 2D points, which are
    connected by lines and curves to form polygons and other shapes". Unlike
    bitmap images, they do not consist of dots, so you don't see blurred
    squares when you enlarge the photo. That's cool. I thought only Adobe
    editors were used for this purpose, since I barely use graphical editors.
</p>

[//]: # (Content)
##### Building and Running

This project is hosted on GitLab, and it is my first time using it. I registered 
to it first and did some configurations like adding my ssh public key. Then, I 
cloned the repo and started following the instructions. The instructions have a 
[script](
https://gitlab.com/inkscape/inkscape-ci-docker/raw/master/install_dependencies.sh) that is supposed to install all the dependencies, if 
your OS distribution is supported. Since I am using a distribution derived from 
Ubuntu, it should work fine, but it didn't. I looked at the script and found out 
that it does not actually support distributions derived from the ones 
listed in the script if the `ID` in `/etc/os-release` has their own distribution 
name. You can refer [this directive](
https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/os-release.html). Anyway, I
modified the script locally, changing the `ID` to my distribution. I just didn't
want to see the string `'missing dependencies'` on bootstrap as I did hundred 
times in this [LibreOffice evaluation](
https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-spr-2020/project-evaluation/blob/master/libreoffice_evaluation.md). Now that Cmake 
successfully generated a Makefile, it was time to build the project by running 
`make`. This time, I tried running with a built-in Linux command called `time` 
to see total build time because I missed how long building LibreOffice took, 
which has almost 10 million lines of code. Too sad I fall asleep after 
waiting for four hours. By the way, default logs of Cmake look really nice. They 
are colored and output percentages that show progress next to every compilation
step. When the process is done, the output of `time` says the execution took 
6374 seconds which is about 106 minutes. I installed the binaries by `make 
install` and executed `make check` to see if the build has been done right. The 
output of `make check` says:
``` text
97% tests passed, 2 tests failed out of 69

Total Test time (real) =  15.17 sec

The following tests FAILED:
	 35 - cli_export_type_check_output (Failed)
	 53 - cli_export_xaml_check_output (Failed)
 
```
I don't know what those messages mean. Let's try running the executable,
`install_dir/bin/inkscape`. It opens a pretty window and looks to be working 
properly, at least for now.


##### Which Issues To Work On?

- **Translation**  
I was thinking about mainly doing translation, but it looks like most of the
Japanese translations have been already done. I will keep an eye on this though.
 
- **Website Development**  
The project uses Django as its primary framework. I worked on the framework
for my capstone project. It can be a good choice for brushing up my skills in 
it.

- **Build System**  
The build system is one of my interest as well. I enjoy writing Bash Scripts,
Makefile and CMake(All of these are pretty simple stuff...). Also, I don't think
this is a choice for a newbie like me, but I will keep reading the documentation 
and issues on this.


##### Outside Activity

- Open Street Map:  
I added my family's favorite drug store in my home town. The name of the place
is "CREATE", but pronounced as "curieito".

