---
layout: post
title: Week 7
subtitle: Contributing to Inkscape
---

##### Completed
- Read [this charter](https://inkscape.org/*moderators/charter/) about Website
moderators. 
- Requested an membership to the Moderators   


##### Todos
- Start reading GTK docs
- Read [this tutorial](https://developer.gnome.org/libsigc++-tutorial/stable/)
about libsigc++


##### **Open Souce Is Not About You**
*[Open Source Is Not About You][OPEN_SOURCE_IS_NOT_ABOUT_YOU]* by Rich Hickey
simply reminded me that open source tools are "free", as he says, "Open source 
is a no-strings-attached gift". I sometimes forget that they are free, and feel
like wanting to make an "Issue" on projects that I have never contribute to. The 
main point he makes is that people should not complain without doing anything 
for it, and even if they contribute to the project, they do not have the right 
to claim their needs which is not for the project itself. I deeply agree with 
this, and I should always think about it carefully as I contribute to projects.



##### Shell Script
I was trying to create some files for future posts and thought like why don't I
just we create everything at once. What I needed to know was if there are such 
commands that return the nearest coming Sunday from today. Of course, there 
weren't any commands that get a specific day and return a date which is closest 
from today. What I found from the [man page][DATE_MAN_PAGE] was a format string 
called `%w`that returns a number which represents the day of the week. For 
example, if today is `2020-03-10` which is Tuesday, and the command `date +%w` 
returns `2` where 0 is Sunday, and 6 is Saturday. If I subtract this number from 
seven, I can get the difference from today between next Sunday. It also looks 
like there's format which adds x days to the given date, that is `+ x days`. 
Perfect. Then, command will look like:
``` bash
date -d "$(date) + $((7-$(date -d $(date) +%w))) days"
```
where `$(date)` returns today's date for the default value. This returns next
Sunday. However, there was a problem that if today was Sunday, it would still 
return next Sunday. One might want to add a file for the day as well. To make it 
this Sunday or today, there is a format string for this (I am not sure it really 
is for this). The format is `%u` which also returns a number of the day in a 
week like `%w` does, but the value of this one is starting from `1` as Monday
whereas `%w` starts from `0` Sunday. The part in the command above:
``` bash
((7-$(date -d $(date) +%w)))
```
returns 7 if today is sunday which adds another week from today's value; 
however, by replacing `%w` tp `%u`, we can get 0, the command is:
``` bash
date -d "$(date) + $((7-$(date -d $(date) +%u))) days"
```
Now I have the value of `this coming Sunday`. The next step is to compare the
values so that we can iterate by incrementing the dates, and stop before the 
date given. The operator `<` and `>` will do it, but it doesn't return true if
values are equal. The `date` command will return as is when I pass a date 
string. For example, if I run  `date`, it returns something like this:
``` 
Tue Mar 10 12:20:44 EDT 2020
```
however, if I put `date -d "2020-03-10"`, this gives me:
``` 
Tue Mar 10 00:00:00 EDT 2020
```
because I didn't pass the date with no specific time, so I need those 'less or 
greater than or equal to' operators for this. Unfortunately, the `-le` `-ge` 
options do not work for dates, but it can be done using `%s` format. According 
to the [man page][DATE_MAN_PAGE], the option returns an integer value `"seconds 
since 1970-01-01 00:00:00 UTC"`. Since it is an integer value, we can compare 
the equality of them. Finally, I ended up the script which creates files named 
formatted `YYYY-MM-DD-WEEK_NUM.md` with checking if the files already exist.
I also have to add `+%D` to the command which gets today's date since it returns 
a date with specific time without the format. 
``` bash
#!/bin/bash
today=$(date +%D)
this_sunday=$(date -d "$today + $((7-$(date -d "$today" +%u))) days")
first_day=2020-02-02
last_day=2020-05-22

next_sunday="$first_day"
i=1

while [[ $(date -d "$next_sunday" +%s) -le $(date -d "$last_day" +%s) ]];
do
    if [[ $(date -d "$this_sunday" +%s) -le $(date -d "$next_sunday" +%s) ]];
    then
        printf -v filename "%s/%s-week%02d.md" "$PWD" "$next_sunday" "$i"
        if [[ -f "$filename" ]];
        then
            echo "$filename already exists."
        else
                ## Create a file with header
                printf  '%s\n%s\n%s%d\n%s\n' "---" "layout: post" \
                "title: Week " "$i" "---" >> "$filename"

                echo "Created" "$filename"
        fi
    fi
    i=$(($i+1))
    next_sunday=$(date -d "$next_sunday + 7 days" +%Y-%m-%d)
done
```
However, the setting does not hide the upcoming posts for some reason. Yes, I 
have wasted sometime... But, it was good to know how those commands work.


##### Outside Activity
I made two contributions to OSM. Added a shrine and a community hall in my hometown.

[OPEN_SOURCE_IS_NOT_ABOUT_YOU]: https://gist.github.com/richhickey/1563cddea1002958f96e7ba9519972d9
[DATE_MAN_PAGE]: http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/date.1.html