---
layout: post
title: Week 9
subtitle: Contributing to Wikipedia
---


##### Why to Report Bugs
A blog post *[They Might Never Tell You It's Broken][WHY_TO_REPORT_BUGS]*
triggered me to report a problem in one of Inkscape's installation script, which 
I wrote briefly about in [this previous post][WEEK7]. The author says, "It’s a 
horrifying thought, but it could be that for every one person who opens an issue 
on GitHub, 100 or more people have already tried your project, run into that 
same bug, and simply moved on", and I noticed that it just happened to me a few
weeks ago. I just found a way out and moved on, and I felt it is the same thing.
It is not easy to find out if the bug is critical for many users, especially if
you do not know much about the project. However, just reporting a bug could be a
huge contribution if many users are experiencing the same issue.


##### Talk by Kevin Fleming
For this week, we had a guest speaker, Kevin Fleming, who works at Bloomberg to 
help produce and support its open-source software. Thanks again for spending 
time on this. I had watched his presentation at [CppCon 2015][CPP_CON] 
beforehand, which he focused on what open source software is, its ecosystem, 
and proper licensing. This time, it was more about how Bloomberg has 
been contributing to open-source projects. The primary learning for me was that
there are many ways for companies to be profitable by providing open source 
communities. I only had some random guess on how companies become profitable by 
contributing to open source projects. For example, Google created Android from 
scratch (not accurate, but they named it at least). For this kind of 
contribution, I can see it benefits the company directly. As the user 
increase, their profit on platform-dependent stuff or service might increase as 
well or gaining more power by branding things, etc. On the other hand, Bloomberg
contributes to several projects that have already existed, but it is hard for 
them to use the project as is, so they usually need to make some enhancement on 
those and make it open and free. In this way, the company can grow with the 
project, which is not fully controlled by an organization.


##### Inkscape
As I stated above, I posted a bug report on Inkscape's mailing list and got a
kind response with some instructions stating what I'm encouraged to do, which
says:
1. Open a bug report on what I had experienced on GitLab
1. Forking `inkscape-ci-docker` project
1. Fix the problem
1. Propose a merge request

I followed the first two parts, for now, opening an issue and forking the repo.

As for the work on the team, we were discussing if we should work on 
their website project since some of the issues are more beginner-friendly than 
the ones their core project has. I voted for working on the site, but I still 
don't know which direction we are going. I found [an issue][issue_472] with the
beginner tag, so I will probably work on it this week.

> Completed:
> - Read the instructions on how to report bugs.
> - Made a post to Inkscape's mailing list about a problem I had.
> - Opened a bug report
> - Discussed how we are going forward with the project.
> - Built `inkscape-web` on my machine

> Todos:
> - Fix the derived distribution issue on `inkscape-ci-docker`
> - (hopefully, make a merge request)
> - Working on [this issue][issue_472]


##### Wikipedia Edit
I continued editing the page about my favorite band. I am slowly getting used
to using Wikitext syntax. The grammar for the heading is somewhat similar to
Markdown. I can create a heading by surrounding a target by `=` where the number
of the expression corresponds to the rank of that heading, such as `<h1>` or 
`<h2>` in HTML. Another leaning on this was how to use a [flatlist][FLAT_LIST], 
which is just a horizontal list separated by dots. It looks like:
<pre>Item1<b>&#8226;</b>Item2<b>&#8226;</b>Item3<b>&#8226;</b>Item4</pre>
I only need the `flatlist` flag and the [template][TEMPLATE] syntax to
achieve this:

``` text
{{flatlist |
* Item1 
* Item2 
* Item3 
* Item4 
}}
```

##### Outside Activity
> Completed:
> - OSM:
>   - Added my favorite restaurant in my hometown
> - Wikipedia:
>   - Added and modified genre in info section on a band page
>   - Added past members on the same page  

> Todos:
> - **Blog Editing**
> - Working more on the same Wikipedia page because the page is still marked as
> a [stub][STUB]
> - Adding more stuff around my hometown on OSM


[WHY_TO_REPORT_BUGS]: https://pointersgonewild.com/2019/11/02/they-might-never-tell-you-its-broken/
[CPP_CON]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n2GhS-u-5FA
[FLAT_LIST]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template:Flatlist
[TEMPLATE]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Transclusion
[ISSUE_472]: https://gitlab.com/inkscape/inkscape-web/-/issues/472
[WEEK7]: https://hunter-college-ossd-spr-2020.github.io/Ks5810-weekly/week06/
[STUB]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Stub