---
layout: post
subtitle: LC 680
---

##### [The Problem][Valid PalindromeII]
*Given a non-empty string s, you may delete at most one character. Judge whether you can make it a palindrome.*

- Input `s`: A non-empty string
- Output: boolean

###### Constraints
- 1 &le; `s.size()` &le; 5000

##### Palindromic String
A [palindrome] string is a sequence of characters that can read the same backward as the original string, like '*level*' or '*radar*'. To solve the problem, we need to know how to check if a string is palindromic or not. Something like [This question][Valid Palindrome] exactly asks it. In that question, the string could contain non-[alphanumeric] characters, but for the sake of simplicity, we assume that the input string only contains alphanumeric values. The simplest way is to use the technique called *'Two Pointers'*. Let`s` be a string, set  two variables `l` set to `0` as the leftmost and `r` set to the rightmost indices. We can check the string by using a while loop. In the loop, check if `s[l]` and `s[r]` is identical, and continue the loop only if they are identical, by incrementing `l` and decrementing `r` each by one.
 ```cpp
bool isPalindrome(string s) 
{
    int l = 0;
    int r = s.size() - 1;

    while(l < r)
    {
        if(!(s[l++] == s[r--]))
        {
            return false;
        }
    }
    return true;
}
 ```

##### Solutions
###### Brute Force
The brute force way is pretty simple. Let `size` be the size of `s`, what we need to check is `s` itself and strings that for each character `s[i]` in range`0..n-1` removed. By using `isPalindrome` from the above:
```cpp
bool validPalindrome(string s)
{
    int size = s.size();
    for (int i = 0; i < size; ++i)
    {
        if(isPalindrome(s.substr(0, i) + s.substr(i + 1, size - i - 1)))
        {
            return true;
        }
    }
    return isPalindrome(s);
}
```
This code runs in the time complexity is *O(N&sup2;)*, and
it exceeds the time limit. We need to think about it a bit more. 

###### Greedy Algorithm
The key point of this problem is to check greedy meaning that making an optimal choice in each local stage. There are two possible cases:
1. `s` is palindromic
2. `s[0..i-1] + s[i+1..size-1]` is palindromic  

Let's look at the function `isPalindrome` again. Whenever we go to the next loop, `l`  is incremented, and `r` is decremented at the same time. If we try to check the case 2 in the same way, we cannot just increment `l` or `r` because we do not know which one of `s[l]` or `s[r]` should remain in the string. That said, there are two subcases in the second stage that `s[l]` is excluded or `s[r]` is excluded. We need to check both of the subcases by: 
1. incrementing `l` by one and keeping `r` as is
2. keeping `l` as is and decrementing `r` by one  

For both cases, we can check that there's no further mismatches. If either of the string in the subcase is a palindrome, the function should return true; otherwise, return false. We can do that having variables for each case, and if the characters to check are identical, just increment and decrement the left and right values. As a result, if the left is greater than or equal to the right, this means the string in the second stage is palindromic.


```cpp
bool validPalindrome(string s)
{
    int size = s.size();
    int l = 0, r = size - 1;
    while(l < r)
    {
        if (s[l] != s[r]) 
        {
            // subcase 1
            int l1 = l, r1 = r - 1
            while (l1 < r1 && s[l1] == s[r1]) 
            {
                l1++; r1--;
            }
            
            // subcase 2
            int l2 = l + 1, r2 = r;
            while (l2 < r2 && s[l2] == s[r2]) 
            {
                l2++; r2--;
            }
            return l1 >= r1 || l2 >= r2;
        }
        l++, r--;
    }
    return true;
}
```
This is an huge improvement compared to the brute force way since this runs in the time complexity of *O(N)* .

[Palindrome]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palindrome
[Alphanumeric]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alphanumeric
[Valid Palindrome]: https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-palindrome
[Valid PalindromeII]: https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-palindrome-ii/