---
layout: post
title: Week 12
subtitle: No More Quarantine?
---

##### Business Models using Open Source #####
By reading blog post 
*[Musings on Open Source Software Bossiness Model][Tom Callaway]*, I learned 
several bossiness models using or creating free and open source. 

<dl>
  <dt><b><i>Subscription Offerings</i></b></dt>
  <dd>The author categories the model
      as <strong>Subscription Offerings</strong> which everything the company
      produces is open source. Companies with this model often sell annual
      subscriptions which provide full support, updates, and access to all
      current binary releases of the software. One thing to note here is all
      source code is open, so customers don't pay for any license to
      use the software.
  </dd>
  <dt><b><i>Donation Models</i></b></dt>
  <dd>Companies with this model solicit donations for downloads of their
      products, but they do not require the user to do it. This model sounds
      more familiar since I use <a href="https://elementary.io/">Elementary OS</a> for my
      daily and educational use, and I donate for some of their apps that I find
      useful. He lists Mozzila as one of the companies that use this
      bossiness model
  </dd>
  <dt><i><b>Open Core</b></i></dt>
  <dd>Companies that use this model provide their core product as open
      source, but they also offer "commercial" versions or add-ons as
      proprietary software. He mentions Pivotal as the best example of this
      model. Open core companies often have Software As Services (SaaS), which
      offer open source software service running on their infrastructure.
  </dd>
</dl>

In the very beginning of the semester, Prof. Weiss told us that RedHat has the
highest revenue in companies whose products consists only from open source,
and I remember wondering how they achieve that. Although the subscription 
Offering model still sounds wired to me, it is proven by RedHat(IBM) being the top 
organization for enterprise open source operating systems. When I read the 
section about Open Core, the first company came up to my mind was Amazon Web 
Service, but there seem to be some arguments whether it can be categorized as 
Open Core as well as MongoDB and Redis (see [this post][Open Source Disturbance] 
for more details). Also, I remember in the talk by Vicky Brasseur,
which I wrote a brief response on [this post][week11], she mentioned that GPL
can be a great license that works well in combination with proprietary licenses,
and I found that Oracle MySQL is a great open core example for this combination.

##### Do I want to work for a company only produced open source software? #####
Taking this course, I started seeing blurred picture of the concept behind it.
The more I learn about open source, I am more convinced by the idea of it. 
I have become especially attracted the fact that the concept of open source 
represents the core idea of programming. One example is the famous 
[Three Virtues], by Larry Wall, who is the creator of Perl, which I think is 
one of the most important aspects of open source development. Having said that, 
yes, even though I would love to work for a company that only produced open source 
software, I do not care how purely open sourced the company is, and I would be 
more considered how it respects the concept of open source. However, because of 
the situation now, the industry's aspect of the buyer's market has become even 
worse, so I wouldn't be able to choose what I want to do also as an 
international student who needs sponsorship to stay in this country.

##### Open Source Solution for Election Fraud #####
In response to the post 
*[Election fraud: Is there an open source solution?][Election fraud]*, I learned
that there is an institution called Open Source Election Technology (OSET) that 
is developing open source technology for elections in the United States. The 
author mainly discusses the current election system runs on a legacy 
system in terms of both software and hardware. It sounds good to me to switch 
the legacy software running something like Windows7 whose support will end 
in 2022. Besides, it is generally safer if the software is open and strictly 
maintained. However, the author points out that there are several things to be 
done by the next election, so I hope it will be successful shortly.

##### Inkscape #####
I made a pull request for [inkscape-ci-docker] a couple of weeks ago, and I am 
glad that I found it to have been merged. 

For our team, we've been working on [this issue][issue472], and since we have 
been struggling to build the inkscape-web project in our local machine, and it 
seems working only on Linux platforms, so we decided to work on discord to 
modify files on my machine. This week we finally made a merge request with 
slight modification in some of the css files. It just got merged next day. 
Thanks for their quick and kind response. We are also working on 
[this issue][issue482] about some elements in the search result having 
incorrect HTML rendering. We came up with two possible causes:  
1. Some formatting mistake in one of the HTML template files
    - Django uses the [template][django-template] system that allows generating 
      dynamic and static HTML in a `.html` file using 
      [Django Template Language][django-template-language]. We haven't found 
      which file is causing this, and Mathew asked about it in the 
      [issue page.][issue482]   
1. The resource in the database has incorrect formats
    - The database resources which contains the text could have incorrect 
      forms. However, we cannot investigate if it is true since we don't have 
      access to the database. Mathew made a comment asking it as well.


[Tom Callaway]: https://spot.livejournal.com/327801.html
[Elementary OS]: https://elementary.io/
[Open Source Disturbance]: https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2019/10/is-the-software-world-taking-too-much-from-the-open-source-community/
[Week11]: https://hunter-college-ossd-spr-2020.github.io/Ks5810-weekly/week11/
[inkscape-ci-docker]: https://gitlab.com/inkscape/inkscape-ci-docker
[issue472]: https://gitlab.com/inkscape/inkscape-web/-/issues/472
[issue482]: https://gitlab.com/inkscape/inkscape-web/-/issues/482
[django-template]: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/topics/templates/
[django-template-language]: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/ref/templates/language/
[Three Virtues]: http://threevirtues.com/
[Election fraud]: https://opensource.com/article/19/9/voting-fraud-open-source-solution?
